spark is designed to support wide range of task over the same computing engine. It works on master slave architecture.
Master - It divides the task to diffrent computers(slave)
For ex - Data scientist, Data Enginner, Data Anylyst all can use the same platform for there modeling and treansformations.
a)Computing engine - spark is limited to a  computing engine. It doesn't store the data. spark can connect to diffrent data sources HDFS,JDBC,Azure storage etc.
b)Pallel processing - Parallel computing is a computing architecture that divides a problem into smaller tasks and runs them concurrently.
c)Apache spark - Apache spark is an unified computing engine and set of libraries for pallel data processing on computer cluster.

Q)Why we need Apache Spark?
Ans- Earlier we have Database - Oracle,TeraData,MySQL. we can store only Structured data.
But Now a days - a)data is generated in csv files,test file,json ,image,video etc .To handle these files we don't have any system. 
b)Volume of data is increased 
Big Data - 3'V of Big Data - 1)Velocity - 1/hr,1/sec 
                             2)Variety - structured,semi structured ,un-structured 
                             3)Volume- 10TB
10 Tb of data is introduced in 1hr then its a Big data
ETL happens before Data Ware house concept , but now ELT happens(Data Lake)
 Note -***Issue - 1)Storage issue of data
                  2)Processing - A)RAM B)CPU
To solve this issue we have two options
a)Monolithhic appoch - To make a computer system big (To scale up hardware, but it has maximum capacity) - vertical scaling,Expensive, Low  avaibility
b)Disributed approch -Horizonal Scaling, High availbilty,Economical

To solve distributed system approch Hadoop came abfter that spark came
Hadoop->Spark

Q)Hadoop and Spark diffrence?
Ans - Hadoop - a) Hadoop is a framework. It is slower than spark because it writes the data back to disk again and read again from from disk to in-memory.
b)It work on mapper and reducer
c)Build for Batch Data Processing
d)Difficult to write code in Hadoop.Hive was built to make it easier.
e)Have solid security feature
f)Fault torerance - It is having block of data and replication factor to handle the faliure.


Spark -a)Spark is faster than Hadoop because spark do all the computation in memory.(RAM)
Ex - Data -- a)Executer - Executer(RAM)
             b)Executer - Executer(RAM)
b)Build for Batch as well as Streaming data Processing
c)Easy to write and debug code.We have interactive shell to develop and test high level and low level API.
d)Don't have solid security feature.
e)Uses DAG (Directed Acyclic graph) [its one after another not in cycle] to provide fault tolerance. Ex- Process1 -Process2-Process3 
If process 2 fails it will create a process 2 again and give, spark knows how data is built for Process2
                                         


       
